[Add] LayerSkip Blog Post (#2459)
huggingface/blog: layerskip.md

output of the earlier layers need to be close enough to the last layer. This is achieved by a
training recipe which, as described in the paper, can be applied during pretraining,
and also while fine-tuning on a specific domain. Self-speculative decoding is
especially efficient for real-world applications, enabling deployment on smaller GPUs and lowering
the overall hardware footprint needed for **large-scale inference**.

In this blog post, we explore the concept of self-speculative decoding, its implementation,
and practical applications using the 🤗 transformers library. You’ll learn about the
technical underpinnings, including **early exit layers**, **unembedding**, and **training modifications**.
To ground these concepts in practice, we offer code examples, benchmark comparisons with traditional
speculative decoding, and insights into performance trade-offs.

Dive straight into the following Hugging Face artifacts to know more about the method
and try it out yourself:

1. [Hugging Face Paper Discussion Forum](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.16710)
2. [LayerSkip Model Collections](https://huggingface.co/collections/facebook/layerskip-666b25c50c8ae90e1965727a)

> 3. [Colab Notebook showcasing the in-depth working of self-speculative decoding](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1V21LaHaZk_zjhvMLvsWgVSFm6-cn9XAl?usp=sharing)

Reviewer: maybe upload the colab in a GH repo and share the URL to the GH repo. You can use HF/ notebooks or if not just upload it in a model repo and past the link here.

We support directly opening notebooks in colab from HF model repos

Reviewer 2: ^ great point

a smaller one (draft model) to generate a sequence of draft tokens, and a larger one
(verification model) to verify the draft’s accuracy. The smaller model performs a significant
portion of the generation, while the larger model refines the results. This increases text
generation speed since the larger model verifies full sequences at once, instead of generating
one draft at a time.

In self-speculative decoding, the authors build on this concept but use the early layers of a
large model to generate draft tokens that are then verified by the model's deeper layers.
This "self" aspect of speculative decoding, which requires specific training,
allows the model to perform both drafting and verification. This, in turn, improves speed and
reduces computational costs compared to the traditional speculative decoding.

## Usage with `transformers`
 
In order to enable early-exit self-speculative decoding in the
[🤗 transformers library](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers), we
just need to add the `assistant_early_exit` argument to the `generate()` function.

Here is a simple code snippet showcasing the functionality.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pip install transformers
```

It's good to make the code snippet complete.

| meta-llama/Llama-2-70b-hf         | 70     | TinyLlama/TinyLlama_v1.1  | 1  | summarization     | 71     | 4356.21     | 40.05     | 12363.22    | 113.66    | 2.84 |
| **facebook/layerskip-llama2-70B** | **70** | **Early Exit @ Layer 10** |    | **summarization** | **70** | **6012.04** | **54.96** | **1283.34** | **113.2** | **2.06** |

#### Llama3 8B

| Model Variant | Layers | Assistant Model | Assistant Layers | Task | Total Layers | FLOPs/Input (G) | Time/Input (s) | FLOPs/Output (G) | Time/Output (s) | Efficiency |
| :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: |
| meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B       | 8     | meta-llama/Llama-3.2-1B  | 1 | summarization     | 9     | 1872.46     | 19.04     | 2859.35     | 29.08     | 1.53 |
| meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B       | 8     | meta-llama/Llama-3.2-3B  | 3 | summarization     | 11    | 2814.82     | 28.63     | 2825.36     | 28.73     | 1.00 |
| **facebook/layerskip-llama3-8B** | **8** | **Early Exit @ Layer 4** |   | **summarization** | **8** | **1949.02** | **15.75** | **3571.81** | **28.87** | **1.83** |

> #### Llama3.2 1B

Reviewer: Suggestion move the latest series numbers above i.e. llama 3.2 > 3.1 > 2 etc

The combination of KV and exit query caches, known as the **KVQ cache**, reduces memory
overhead and improves inference latency.

So far, the 🤗 transformers library has implemented the first optimization (Shared Weights) in this
[pull request](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/pull/34240). As the number of models
that use this method increases, we'll consider the additional optimizations.
Feel free to open a PR if you're interested!

## How Early Can We Exit?

The early exit layer of the draft stage is a hyperparameter that we can tune or modify during inference:

* The earlier we exit, the faster the generation of draft tokens are but the less accurate they will be.  
* The later we exit, the more accurate the draft tokens generated are but the slower their generation will be.

We wrote [a script](https://gist.github.com/mostafaelhoushi/1dd2781b896504bf0569a3ae4b8f9ecf)
to sweep across different early exit layers and measure the tokens per second on A100 GPUs.
In the Tables below we plot the tokens per second versus the early exit layer for different
Llama models for both LayerSkip and baseline checkpoints (you can view the full logs

> [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/145CUq-P_6tbPkmArL7qsjxUihjDgLnzX?usp=sharing)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/145CUq-P_6tbPkmArL7qsjxUihjDgLnzX?usp=sharing).
```

This can be a dataset/ model repo too :D (no worries if not)

is a novel approach to text generation, combining the strengths of speculative decoding and early
exit techniques within a large language model (LLM). This method allows for efficient generation
by using the *same model's* early layers for drafting tokens and later layers for verification.

By leveraging this technique, we not only speed up text generation but also achieve significant
memory savings and reduce computational latency. In order to obtain an end-to-end speedup, the
output of the earlier layers need to be close enough to the last layer. This is achieved by a
training recipe as described in the paper that could be applied as continual pretraining,
pretraining from scratch, or finetuning on a specific domain. This makes self-speculative decoding
especially efficient for real-world applications, enabling deployment on smaller GPUs and lowering
the overall hardware footprint needed for **large-scale inference**.

Dive straight into the Hugging Face artifacts to know more:

1. [Hugging Face Paper Discussion Forum](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.16710)
2. [LayerSkip Model Collections](https://huggingface.co/collections/facebook/layerskip-666b25c50c8ae90e1965727a)

> 3. LayerSkip Space

Reviewer 3: The `LayerSkip Space` is the Colab Notebook or something else?

Author: We were thinking of hosting a Hugging Face Space (https://huggingface.co/spaces) so that people can play around with the models.

Author: I will create a space as soon as the [PR](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/pull/34240) is merged.

Reviewer 2: But there's also a Colab Notebook, can we link it here too?

Reviewer 2: In addition, we may want to add a couple of sentences to explain readers what they should expect from the rest of this post (how to use in transformers + how it works in more detail).

Reviewer 3: Here is the suggestion to add the link to the Colab Notebook

```suggestion
3. LayerSkip Space
4. [Colab Notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1V21LaHaZk_zjhvMLvsWgVSFm6-cn9XAl?usp=sharing)
```

Author: Thanks for the colab notebook @mostafaelhoushi 

I am adding the notebook and removing the space section, as I do not think it will add value to the blog post. WDYT?

Reviewer 3: I am fine with any option. I am not very familiar with Spaces but my impression that it is easier for users and might get larger traffic than Colab, but since we have a blog and if creating a Space may take a while, then we can just use the Colab.

Something I want to mention about Colab, is that I was only able to get speedups when using A100 GPU and not with the free P100 GPUs. So I had to pay out of pocket to upgrade Colab to A100 to observe decent speeds in the Colab. In Spaces, what GPU type is used in the backend?

Author: > I am not very familiar with Spaces but my impression that it is easier for users and might get larger traffic than Colab, but since we have a blog and if creating a Space may take a while, then we can just use the Colab.

Hugging Face spaces hosts demos of models. With Layer Skip, to showcase the power of the algorithm we would need to demo the generation speeds of model with and without self-speculation (as shown in the GIF). Otherwise it does not make sense for us to create the space and let users use it.

![gif](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/layerskip-assets/LayerSkip-Demo.gif)

> what GPU type is used in the backend

We have a lot of options to choose from (attached screenshot)

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/67ec8fa1-564c-47bf-8960-2bef8f2ac1e2)

Reviewer 2: We could come up with something visual for the Space, but in the interest of time I'd get this done and published and we can iterate later.

one draft at a time.

In self-speculative decoding, the authors build on this concept but use the early layers of a
large model to generate draft tokens. The early exit logits are used to predict tokens, which are
then verified by the model’s deeper layers. This "self" aspect of speculative decoding, which
requires specific training as explained later, allows the model to perform both drafting and verification.
This, in turn, improves speed and reduces computational costs compared to the traditional speculative decoding.

## Usage with `transformers`
 
In order to enable the early-exit self-speculative decoding in
[🤗 transformers library](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers), we
just need to add `early_exit` argument to a model’s `generate()` function.

Here is a simple code snippet showcasing the functionality.

```py
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForCausalLM

early_exit_layer = 4
prompt = "Alice and Bob"
checkpoint = "facebook/layerskip-llama2-7B"

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
inputs = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")

model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint).to("cuda")

> outputs = model.generate(**inputs, early_exit=early_exit_layer)

Reviewer 3: @gante : what do you think of changing the argument in this PR and in https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/pull/34240 to `assistant_early_exit` as I described [here](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/pull/34240#issuecomment-2453579887)

Reviewer 3: The PR has merged with argument changed to `assistant_early_exit`, so changing it throughout the blog:
```suggestion
outputs = model.generate(**inputs, assistant_early_exit=early_exit_layer)
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, we need to make sure this snippet is in sync with the PR.

| Code Llama 34B | `codellama/CodeLlama-34b-hf` | `codellama/CodeLlama-7b-hf` | 41B | n/a | n/a | 0.11x |
|  | `codellama/CodeLlama-34b-hf` | `TinyLlama/TinyLlama_v1.1_math_code` | 35B | n/a | n/a | 1.33x |
|  | `facebook/layerskip-codellama-34B` | Early Exit @ Layer 8 | **34B** | n/a | n/a | **1.54x** |

</hfoption>
</hfoptions>

Some observations we can make from the results:

* As seen in the **Total Number of Parameters** column, self-speculative decoding consumes less memory
  as it does not require a separate draft model and re-uses the weights of a subset of its layers for
  the draft stage.  
* For all model sizes and generations except Llama2 70B, the early-exit self-speculative decoding
  is faster than the regular two-model speculative decoding.  
* There could be different reasons for the relatively limited speedups of self-speculative decoding
  on Llama2 70B compared to other models, e.g., the LayerSkip checkpoint of Llama2 70B was continually
  pretrained with fewer tokens (328 M tokens for Llama2 70B compared to 52B tokens for Llama2 7B).
  But this is an area of improvement to investigate for future research. Nevertheless,

>   self-speculative decoding for 70B is significantly faster than autoregressive decoding.

Author: This section looks like this in the current stage.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/be515d3f-62f8-4388-adfb-6d70cefdd313)

I also applied your changes and rendered it, which resulted with the same indent.

>   self-speculative decoding for 70B is significantly faster than autoregressive decoding.

Reviewer 3: Thanks @ariG23498 ! What I had in mind was to make the 3rd bullet indent even further, i.e., the 3rd bullet point becomes a sub-bullet of the 2nd bullet point.

>   self-speculative decoding for 70B is significantly faster than autoregressive decoding.

Author: I have made the change in the latest commit. Thank you for the suggestion.

given by a summation of normalized loss from each exit.

$$ J(X, Y, t) = \sum_{l=0}^{L-1} \tilde{e}(t, l) J_{\text{CE}}(g(x_{l+1}), Y) $$

Where \\( g() \\) is the unembedding operation, \\( x_{l+1} \\) is the output of transformer layer
\\( l \\), \\( Y \\) is the index of the next token ground truth, \\( \tilde{e}(t, l) \\) is a
normalized per-layer loss scale at layer \\( l \\), which we can keep constant throughout training
or create a schedule to make it dependent on iteration \\( t \\), ensuring that the early exit
layers are properly supervised during training. This technique enables efficient training by
distributing the learning task across all layers.

## Self-Drafting and Self-Verification

Once training is complete, we can apply self-speculative decoding during inference. The process
begins with **self-drafting**, where tokens are generated by exiting early from some intermediate
layer. The number of speculative tokens \\( d \\) defines how many draft tokens are produced during
this stage, and the layer we exit at \\( E \\) defines how large and accurate is the draft stage.
Both parameters can be specified at inference  based on a

> [trade-off between speed and accuracy](https://huggingface.co/blog/assisted-generation).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[trade-off between speed and accuracy of the draft stage](https://huggingface.co/blog/assisted-generation).
```

The next stage is **self-verification**, where the full model is used to verify the draft tokens.
The verification model reuses the portion of cache from the draft model. If the draft tokens align
with the verified tokens, they are added to the final output, resulting in a better usage of the
memory bandwidth in our system, because it’s much more expensive to generate a sequence of tokens

> with the full model than verifying a draft, as long as several of the tokens match

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
with the full model than verifying a draft, as long as several of the tokens match.
```

In the self-verification stage, the remaining layers \\( L - E \\) are computed for verification,
with \\( E \\) being the exit layer depth used during drafting.

> ## Optimizations: Shared Weights, Shared KV Cache, and Exit Query Cache

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Optimizations: Shared Weights, Shared KV Cache, and Shared Compute
```

Additionally, the **exit query cache** stores the query vector from the exit layer, allowing
verification to continue seamlessly from the draft stage.

Compared to traditional two-model speculative decoding, early-exit self-speculative decoding can
benefit from the following savings:

* **Shared Weights**: Reuses the weights from the first \\( E \\) layers for both drafting and verification.   
* **Shared KV Cache**: Reuses key-value pairs from the first \\( E \\) layers for both drafting and verification.  
* **Shared Compute**: Reuses the compute of the first \\( E \\) layers by using a
  **Exit Query Cache** that saves only the query vector of the exit layer \\(E-1\\) so that the
  verification process won’t need to compute layers \\( 0 \\) to \\( E-1 \\).

The combination of KV and exit query caches, known as the **KVQ cache**, reduces memory
overhead and improves inference latency.

So far, the transformers library has implemented the first optimization (Shared Weights) in this
[pull request](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/pull/34240).

## Ablation Studies

The early exit layer of the draft stage is a hyperparameter that we can tune or modify during inference:

> * The earlier we exit, the faster the generation of candidate tokens are but the less accurate they will be.  
> * The later we exit, the more accurate the tokens generated are but the slower their generation will be.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The earlier we exit, the faster the generation of draft tokens are but the less accurate they will be.  
* The later we exit, the more accurate the draft tokens generated are but the slower their generation will be.
```

---
title: "Faster Text Generation with Self-Speculative Decoding"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/layerskip/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: ariG23498
- user: melhoushi
  guest: true
  org: facebook
- user: pcuenq
- user: reach-vb
---

# Faster Text Generation with Self-Speculative Decoding

> Self-speculative decoding proposed in
> [LayerSkip: Enabling Early Exit Inference and Self-Speculative Decoding](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.16710)
> is a novel approach to text generation, combining the strengths of speculative decoding and early
> exit techniques within a large language model (LLM). This method allows for efficient generation
> by using the *same model's* early layers for drafting tokens and later layers for verification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Self-speculative decoding, proposed in
[LayerSkip: Enabling Early Exit Inference and Self-Speculative Decoding](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.16710)
is a novel approach to text generation. It combines the strengths of speculative decoding with early
exiting from a large language model (LLM). This method allows for efficient generation
by using the *same model's* early layers for drafting tokens, and later layers for verification.
```

> By leveraging this technique, we not only speed up text generation but also achieve significant
> memory savings and reduce computational latency. In order to obtain an end-to-end speedup, the
> output of the earlier layers need to be close enough to the last layer. This is achieved by a
> training recipe as described in the paper that could be applied as continual pretraining,
> pretraining from scratch, or finetuning on a specific domain. This makes self-speculative decoding
> especially efficient for real-world applications, enabling deployment on smaller GPUs and lowering
> the overall hardware footprint needed for **large-scale inference**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This technique not only speeds up text generation, but it also achieves significant
memory savings and reduces computational latency. In order to obtain an end-to-end speedup, the
output of the earlier layers needs to be close enough to the last layer. This is achieved by a
training recipe which, as described in the paper, can be applied during pretraining, and also while fine-tuning on a specific domain. Self-speculative decoding is 
especially efficient for real-world applications, enabling deployment on smaller GPUs and lowering
the overall hardware footprint needed for **large-scale inference**.
```

Reviewer 2: (Not opposed to mentioning shared KV-caching early, like in this summary)

Author: @pcuenca do you mean I should add a line about shared KV Caching in this paragraph?

Reviewer 2: Just a mention, if you think it's useful. For example:

```
This technique not only speeds up text generation, but it also achieves significant
memory savings (because weights and caches can be reused), and reduces computational latency. In order to obtain an end-to-end speedup, the
output of the earlier layers needs to be close enough to the last layer's. This is achieved by a
training recipe which, as described in the paper, can be applied during pretraining, and also while fine-tuning on a specific domain. Self-speculative decoding is 
especially efficient for real-world applications, enabling deployment on smaller GPUs and lowering
the overall hardware footprint needed for **large-scale inference**
```

Your call!

> Dive straight into the Hugging Face artifacts to know more:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dive straight into the following Hugging Face artifacts to know more about the method and try it out yourself:
```

1. [Hugging Face Paper Discussion Forum](https://huggingface.co/papers/2404.16710)
2. [LayerSkip Model Collections](https://huggingface.co/collections/facebook/layerskip-666b25c50c8ae90e1965727a)
3. LayerSkip Space

## Speculative Decoding and Self-Speculative Decoding

![LayerSkip Demo GIF](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/layerskip-assets/LayerSkip-Demo.gif)
*Illustration of LayerSkip inference on [`facebook/layerskip-llama2-7B`](https://huggingface.co/facebook/layerskip-llama2-7B)
(Llama2 7B continually pretrained with the LayerSkip recipe).*

[Traditional speculative decoding](https://huggingface.co/blog/assisted-generation) uses **two** models:
a smaller one (draft model) to generate a sequence of draft tokens, and a larger one
(verification model) to verify the draft’s accuracy. The smaller model performs a significant
portion of the generation, while the larger model refines the results. This increases text
generation speed since the larger model verifies full sequences at once, instead of generating
one draft at a time.

> In self-speculative decoding, the authors build on this concept but use the early layers of a
> large model to generate draft tokens. The early exit logits are used to predict tokens, which are
> then verified by the model’s deeper layers. This "self" aspect of speculative decoding, which

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In self-speculative decoding, the authors build on this concept but use the early layers of a
large model to generate draft tokens that are 
then verified by the model’s deeper layers. This "self" aspect of speculative decoding, which
```

> requires specific training as explained later, allows the model to perform both drafting and verification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
requires specific training, allows the model to perform both drafting and verification.
```

This, in turn, improves speed and reduces computational costs compared to the traditional speculative decoding.

## Usage with `transformers`
 

> In order to enable the early-exit self-speculative decoding in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to enable early-exit self-speculative decoding in the 
```

[🤗 transformers library](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers), we

> just need to add `early_exit` argument to a model’s `generate()` function.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
just need to add `assistant_early_exit` argument to a model’s `generate()` function.
```

> just need to add `early_exit` argument to a model’s `generate()` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
just need to add the `assistant_early_exit` argument to the `generate()` function.
```

Here is a simple code snippet showcasing the functionality.

```py
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForCausalLM

early_exit_layer = 4
prompt = "Alice and Bob"
checkpoint = "facebook/layerskip-llama2-7B"

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
inputs = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")

model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint).to("cuda")

> outputs = model.generate(**inputs, early_exit=early_exit_layer)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
outputs = model.generate(**inputs, assistant_early_exit=early_exit_layer)
```

```

> > **Note:** While the `early_exit` argument can potentially enable early-exit self-speculative decoding for any

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** While the `assistant_early_exit` argument can potentially enable early-exit self-speculative decoding for any
```

decoder-only transformer, you will **only obtain speedups** for a checkpoint that was trained in such a

> way to increase the accuracy of earlier layers. The [LayerSkip paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.16710)

Reviewer 2: Maybe briefly explain here that logits from intermediate layers cannot be "decoded" into tokens by the LM head unless the model is specifically trained for that.

Author: Great point.

proposes a training recipe to achieve that (namely, applying early exit loss, and progressively
increasing layer dropout rates). A collection of Llama2, Llama3, and Code Llama checkpoints that
have been continually pretrained with the LayerSkip training recipe are provided
[here](https://huggingface.co/collections/facebook/layerskip-666b25c50c8ae90e1965727a).

### Benchmarking

> We ran an extensive list of benchmarks to measure the speedup of LayerSkip’s self-speculative
> decoding with respect to autoregressive decoding on various models. We also compare self-speculative
> decoding, i.e., using early exit generation as the draft stage, with speculative decoding, i.e.,
> using a separate assistant model as the draft stage. To reproduce the results, you may find the
> code [here](https://github.com/gante/huggingface-demos/pull/1) and the command to run each experiment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We ran an extensive list of benchmarks to measure the speedup of LayerSkip’s self-speculative
decoding with respect to autoregressive decoding on various models. We also compare self-speculative
decoding (based on early exiting) with standard speculative decoding techniques. To reproduce the results, you may find the
code [here](https://github.com/gante/huggingface-demos/pull/1), and the command to run each experiment
```

in this
[spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1YASFEJl5WPmiXbtW-5-PA5nVqtXlZM9YifaAuv49hhI/edit?usp=sharing).
All the experiments were ran on a single 80GB A100 GPU, except for Llama2 70B experiments that
ran on a node of 8 A100 GPUs.

> <hfoptions id="benchmarking">

Reviewer 2: What does`hfoptions` mean?

Author: I saw this in the [diffusers docs](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/99c0483b67427de467f11aa35d54678fd36a7ea2/docs/source/en/training/text2image.md?plain=1#L37). This helps create a tab of options which makes it easy to segregate topics.

<img width="917" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cc767038-c926-4041-8f0c-2a387752c484">

Reviewer 2: I don't think this works in the blog rendering engine, but I might be wrong.

Author: The best alternative to this would be to segregate them with headings. Should I proceed with that then?

Reviewer 2: You can check an approximate preview by copying the text in https://huggingface.co/new-blog (please, do not publish, just preview). It does not show `hfoptions`

Author: The tabs are not rendered!

I will segregate them with headings in the next commit. Thanks for catching this.

|  | `facebook/layerskip-llama2-70B` | Early Exit @ Layer 10 | **70B** | 2.06x | 1.83x | 1.52x |

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="Colde Llama 7B">

| Model | Target Checkpoint | Assistant | Total Number of Parameters | Speedup | | |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | ----- | :---- | :---- |
|  |  |  |  | **summarization** | **open-ended generation** | **code generation** |
| Code Llama 7B | `codellama/CodeLlama-7b-hf` | `TinyLlama/TinyLlama_v1.1_math_code` | 8B | n/a | n/a | 0.30x |
|  | `facebook/layerskip-codellama-7B` | Early Exit @ Layer 4 | **7B** | n/a | n/a | **1.39x** |

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="Colde Llama 34B">

| Model | Target Checkpoint | Assistant | Total Number of Parameters | Speedup | | |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | ----- | :---- | :---- |
|  |  |  |  | **summarization** | **open-ended generation** | **code generation** |
| Code Llama 34B | `codellama/CodeLlama-34b-hf` | `codellama/CodeLlama-7b-hf` | 41B | n/a | n/a | 0.11x |
|  | `codellama/CodeLlama-34b-hf` | `TinyLlama/TinyLlama_v1.1_math_code` | 35B | n/a | n/a | 1.33x |
|  | `facebook/layerskip-codellama-34B` | Early Exit @ Layer 8 | **34B** | n/a | n/a | **1.54x** |

</hfoption>

> </hfoptions>

Reviewer 2: This is very cool and comprehensive, but I wonder if we could convey the same with a plot so it's more visual?

Some observations we can make from the results:

> * As seen in the **Total Number of Parameters** column, self-speculative decoding consumes less memory
>   as it does not require a separate draft model and re-uses the weights of a subset of its layers for
>   the draft stage.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* As seen in the **Total Number of Parameters** column, self-speculative decoding consumes less memory
  because it doesn't require a separate draft model and weights for the draft stage layers are re-used.
```

* For all model sizes and generations except Llama2 70B, the early-exit self-speculative decoding
  is faster than the regular two-model speculative decoding.  

>   * There could be different reasons for the relatively limited speedups of self-speculative decoding
>     on Llama2 70B compared to other models, e.g., the LayerSkip checkpoint of Llama2 70B was continually
>     pretrained with fewer tokens (328 M tokens for Llama2 70B compared to 52B tokens for Llama2 7B).
>     But this is an area of improvement to investigate for future research. Nevertheless,
>     self-speculative decoding for 70B is significantly faster than autoregressive decoding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

There could be different reasons for the relatively limited speedups of self-speculative decoding
on Llama2 70B compared to other models. For example, the LayerSkip checkpoint of Llama2 70B was continually
pretrained with fewer tokens (328M tokens for Llama2 70B compared to 52B tokens for Llama2 7B).
This is an area to investigate in future research. Nevertheless,
self-speculative decoding for 70B is significantly faster than autoregressive decoding.
```

(nit: remove the isolated nested bullet point)

Reviewer 2: Do we want to discuss kv-cache?

Author: > (nit: remove the isolated nested bullet point)

@mostafaelhoushi wanted to nest the bullet point, keeping it as is for the time being (if this is not a blocker)

> Do we want to discuss kv-cache?

This analysis was not written by me, so will wait for @mostafaelhoushi to hear what he feels about the suggestion.

Reviewer 2: Re: the bullet point, my suggestion is to still indent it, but without a bullet point. It's just a single item that follows the previous topic.

## Early Exit and Unembedding

One key technique in self-speculative decoding is early exit, where the generation process can halt
at a pre specified layer. To accomplish this, we **unembed** the logits from these layers by projecting
them onto the language model (LM) head to predict the next token. This allows the model to skip
subsequent layers and improve inference time.

Unembedding can be performed at any transformer layer, turning early-exit into an efficient
token-prediction mechanism. A natural question arises: how can the LM head be adapted to unembed
logits from earlier layers when it was initially trained to work with the final layer only? This
is where the training modifications come into play.

> ## Training Modifications: *Layer Dropout* and *Early Exit Loss*

Reviewer 2: Should this and some of the following be `###` instead of `##`?

Author: My intuition was to treat this and the later sections as H2 and not nest under the `Early Exit and Unembedding" section.
Having said that, I am open to nesting the sections under a new H2. WDYT?

Reviewer 2: No, I'm happy if you are happy.

> In the training phase, the authors introduce **layer dropout**, also known as stochastic depth,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the training phase, we introduce **layer dropout**,
```

nits: we are using `we` in other places, I think it should be consistent. Removed stochastic depth because, in my opinion, the blog post does not need to be comprehensive or read like a paper.

which allows the model to skip certain layers during training. The dropout rate increases

> progressively across layers, making the model less reliant on its later layers as well as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
progressively in deeper layers, making the model less reliant on its later layers,
```

enhancing the model's generalization and speeding up training.

In addition to layer dropout, **early exit loss** is applied to ensure the LM head learns to
unembed different layers. The total loss function for training the model with early exits is
given by a summation of normalized loss from each exit.

$$ J(X, Y, t) = \sum_{l=0}^{L-1} \tilde{e}(t, l) J_{\text{CE}}(g(x_{l+1}), Y) $$

Where \\( g() \\) is the unembedding operation, \\( x_{l+1} \\) is the output of transformer layer
\\( l \\), \\( Y \\) denotes the indices of the next tokens ground truth, \\( \tilde{e}(t, l) \\) is a
normalized per-layer loss scale at layer \\( l \\), which we can keep constant throughout training
or create a schedule to make it dependent on iteration \\( t \\), ensuring that the early exit
layers are properly supervised during training. This technique enables efficient training by

> distributing the learning task across all layers.

Reviewer 2: Consider removing the equation and just stating that the loss is a combination of losses from all the intermediate layers. Keeping it conceptual and appealing to intuition usually works great, readers can refer to the paper for all the details :)

Author: Thanks for the tip!

## Self-Drafting and Self-Verification

Once training is complete, we can apply self-speculative decoding during inference. The process
begins with **self-drafting**, where tokens are generated by exiting early from some intermediate
layer. The number of speculative tokens \\( d \\) defines how many draft tokens are produced during
this stage, and the layer we exit at \\( E \\) defines how large and accurate is the draft stage.
Both parameters can be specified at inference  based on a

> [trade-off between speed and accuracy of the draft stage](https://huggingface.co/blog/assisted-generation).

Reviewer 2: I think transformers uses some strategies and heuristics to adapt `d`, but it's probably not necessary to explain. A link to the docs could be useful, though.

Reviewer 2: Also consider removing the symbols if they are not used elsewhere.

The next stage is **self-verification**, where the full model is used to verify the draft tokens.
The verification model reuses the portion of cache from the draft model. If the draft tokens align
with the verified tokens, they are added to the final output, resulting in a better usage of the
memory bandwidth in our system, because it’s much more expensive to generate a sequence of tokens
with the full model than verifying a draft, as long as several of the tokens match.

> In the self-verification stage, the remaining layers \\( L - E \\) are computed for verification,
> with \\( E \\) being the exit layer depth used during drafting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the self-verification stage, only the remaining layers are computed for verification, because the results from the early layers are cached during the drafting phase.
```

This may be a little hand-wavy, but does not go into kv-caching or generation details. Still, IIUC inference runs through the full model, not just the remaining layers; if that's the case then the previous might be slightly confusing.

Self-speculative decoding benefits significantly from cache reuse, particularly the **KV cache**,
which stores key-value pairs computed during the drafting stage. This cache allows the model to skip
redundant calculations, as both the draft and verification stages use the same early layers.
Additionally, the **exit query cache** stores the query vector from the exit layer, allowing
verification to continue seamlessly from the draft stage.

Compared to traditional two-model speculative decoding, early-exit self-speculative decoding can
benefit from the following savings:

* **Shared Weights**: Reuses the weights from the first \\( E \\) layers for both drafting and verification.   
* **Shared KV Cache**: Reuses key-value pairs from the first \\( E \\) layers for both drafting and verification.  
* **Shared Compute**: Reuses the compute of the first \\( E \\) layers by using a
  **Exit Query Cache** that saves only the query vector of the exit layer \\(E-1\\) so that the
  verification process won’t need to compute layers \\( 0 \\) to \\( E-1 \\).

The combination of KV and exit query caches, known as the **KVQ cache**, reduces memory
overhead and improves inference latency.

> So far, the transformers library has implemented the first optimization (Shared Weights) in this
> [pull request](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/pull/34240).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So far, the transformers library has implemented the first optimization (Shared Weights) in this
[pull request](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/pull/34240). As the number of models
that use this method increases, we'll consider the additional optimizations. Feel free to open a PR if you're interested!
```

> ## Ablation Studies

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How Early Can We Exit?
```

The early exit layer of the draft stage is a hyperparameter that we can tune or modify during inference:

* The earlier we exit, the faster the generation of draft tokens are but the less accurate they will be.  
* The later we exit, the more accurate the draft tokens generated are but the slower their generation will be.

> Hence, we wrote up a script [here](https://gist.github.com/mostafaelhoushi/1dd2781b896504bf0569a3ae4b8f9ecf)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We wrote [a script](https://gist.github.com/mostafaelhoushi/1dd2781b896504bf0569a3ae4b8f9ecf)
```

</hfoption>
</hfoptions>

We can observe the following:

* For the baseline checkpoints that have not been pretrained or continually pretrained with the
  LayerSkip training recipe, early exit self-speculative decoding is slower than autoregressive decoding.
  This is because during training of most LLMs, earlier layers are not motivated to learn to predict
  the output, and hence generating tokens using earlier layers will have a very low acceptance rate.   
* On the other hand, for the Llama checkpoints that were continually pre-trained with the LayerSkip
  training, early exit self-speculative decoding has higher speedup than autoregressive decoding for
  at least a subset of the layers.  
  * For most models, except Llama3.2 1B, we notice a regular pattern when we traverse across
    layers: speedup starts low for the first few layers, increases gradually to a sweet spot, and
    then decreases again.   
  * The early exit layer sweet spot is when we have the optimal tradeoff between high accuracy of
    predictions and low overhead of generating tokens. This sweet spot depends on each model,

>     and may also depend on the prompt or domain of the prompt.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion to encourage readers to experiment on their models and use cases :)

## Conclusion

> LayerSkip leverages the synergy between early exits, layer dropout, and cache reuse to create a fast

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
LayerSkip leverages the synergy between early exit, layer dropout, and cache reuse to create a fast
```
